# 补语详解

## 难以理解的主语补语

### 你能理解的主语补语其实是表语：

1. Michael is a boy.
2. Sally is a girl.
3. Your feet smell awful.
4. That sounds nice.

### 你不能理解的主语补语长这样：

1. He is walking around naked.
2. Larry stood there silent.
3. Angry with his dad, Sally stormed out of the room.

### nakedly, 还是naked?

- 语法形式对，语义不一定对

##### 例如：

1. naked 明显是用来形容名词的

    - He is walking around naked.
    - He is walking around nakedly.

2. silent 明显是用来形容名词的

    - Larry stood there silent.
    - Larry stood there silently.

3. tired 明显是用来形容名词的

    - (you) Do not drive tired.

    - (you) Do not drive tiredly!

4. right 明显是用来修饰名词的

    - Everything will come right.
    - Everything will come rightly.

5. speechless 明显是用来修饰名词的

    - Michael stared at me speechless.
    - Michael stared at me speechless.

## 补语类型的多种多样

- That's how things work.
- I felt bertayed.
- He has become used to the weather.
- What matters is whether Michael will come to the party.
- I found this movie to be really interesting.
- HUAWEI Mate 60 Pro will go global!
- This woman, small and thin, has as strong will.

##### 辨析：

- 放轻松。

    - [x] (you) Take it easy.

    - [ ] (you) Take it easily.

## 补语堪称语法里最难鉴别的成分

- Sally was made president of the school.
- He denied (that he had been) involved in this case.
- We felt so much at home.
- I plead guilty, Your Honor.
- We can't all be born rich and pretty.
- All men are created equal.
- I got admitted to Tsinghua ready to succeed and graduated from it four years later ready to fail.
- His instantly turned furious the picture of anger.
- They started roasting each other in the comments section, typical of want B-yous did.
- They parted best friends.
- Distressed and worried, Xiaoming could barely stand the days prepping for his Kaoyan English, conmpletely panic0stricken, not able to see a glimpse of hope. That changed when he met Larry, and just days into Larry's grammar crash course, he was so ready to crack all English exams, no longer afraid and all smiles.
